We ranked number one on Google and got
eight qualified deals from just 120
website sessions. We beat giants like
CXL, HubSpot, and Cognism with domain
authorities almost three times higher
than ours. And no, this wasn't luck or
with a huge budget. So, in this video,
I'm going to share the exact framework.
Everything from building the plan of
action, the foundation, crafting out the
page, the on-page SEO, the off- page
work, building out back links, so you
can see exactly how we brought in
pipeline and revenue within those 67
days. I'll share every tactic so you can
see exactly how we outrank those decade
old competitors. You're even going to
see under the bonnet with the content we
put together, the pages, and the
analytics to show the results. So, if
you're a B2B or SAS company that's tired
of competitors outranking you when dream
clients are searching for your solution,
this one's for you. Let's dive in.
Sam, the money keywords that we want to
rank for or that we were thinking of
ranking for are demand generation course
and demand generation program. Now, the
reason being is I found there's a bit of
search volume around it. And so,
ideally, Sam, I'd love to appear number
one for that search term, but this isn't
something we've ever really targeted
before. Um, so I would love to first get
your thoughts on these money keywords.
What have you got for us?
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, I was looking at these
recently after you shared them with me.
So, looking at my findings, I was
looking at my scribbled down Google
Docs. So, I was looking at demand
generation course. looks smart. I also
thought demand generation training would
probably be smart too. The other keyword
number two, demand generation program.
We can dive into this. I can see I've
just searched demand generation course.
Obviously, I'm in the UK, so the search
results might vary a little bit to US or
Oz. But
what we can see is anyone in the B2B
space. If we go under the paid results,
Cognism well known brand for lead
generation certainly in UK and I think
they're grown in EU and US. So they've
basically built out they're currently
organic position one for demand
generation course but they've actually
built out like a freed sorry training
center with all these demand generation
courses, videos, slides. The page itself
doesn't have that much written content.
It's just access to a lot of modules.
and articles and guides. So, it's quite
an informationririch site. The battle
we're going to have against Cognism is
they're big on SEO. As of the last
couple years, they've invested a ton of
resource and cash and hired some some
decent SEO experts. So, that's going to
be quite a tough one to go against. And
then also CXL. So, they're currently
position organic too for demand
generation course. Again, well known
that specifically well known in the B2B
marketing training. I think they have
like a monthly or annual subscription
where you can kind of pay to to learn
different B2B aspects. However, the good
thing about this page is it's not been
updated in a while. And I did see that
this course is now archived. So, the
page that they're ranking, we might be
able to surpass it in the sense that
it's not very fresh content. They
probably haven't updated in a long time.
They're not that bothered about pushing
it. But the only issue we're going to
have is that these two sites have quite
a strong domain rating or domain
authority as they've got a ton of
content. They've got a ton of sites
linking to them. So, that's one issue
we're going to have, but we'll look at
ways to to get around that. So, that's
like the top two rankings. And then
we've got HubSpot. Everyone knows
HubSpot. Again, theirs is more of a free
course. So, that's demand generation
course. Now, the good thing about this
keyword is we can see that there's some
intent there. They're more solutionbased
kind of pages like Cognism have got the
free resources. CXL have actually got
their paid course, which is now
redundant, but we can see the intent
there is is a paid course of some sort.
And then we've got kind of some other
pages there from Driftton online
marketing institute. And then if I look
at my suggested secondary keyword, which
is demand generation training, what have
we got underneath? Again, the top two
results are the same. So we've got
cognism and then CXL. And then the ones
underneath are slightly different, but
that's a good sign. They're both showing
the same page. So that means you can
probably rank with once we build out
this page and talk about how we build it
out, we can probably rank with the same
page. But if I look at your other
keyword we discussed which was demand
generation program. If we look at what's
ranking for demand oh we've got an AI
instant result there. Interesting. If
we've got a demand generation program
keyword it's more information based
results. So for example Microsoft is a
top organic result talking about what is
demand generation. So this is more of a
indepth article answering the question
the essentials of a demand generation
program. And then we've got Gartner,
five steps to build a demand generation
strategy. Cognism's different page. What
is demand generation? Hubspot, what is
demand generation? So, this is more
informative based, George, which I don't
believe is what we're going for. I mean,
do you want to give us a snapshot of
what you want to get out of this page?
>> Yeah, I think you're spot on. Um, we
probably should steer away from demand
generation program because really we we
want this to be a solutions page. uh
like a page that actually leads to our
program and shows people like this is
what our demand generation program is
and this is what's in the course and
eventually you know push them to sign up
if it's something that they're
interested in.
>> Got it. So to set the scene which I
should have asked first really this is
going to be more of a solution page. We
actually want to capture folks that are
potentially in market and show them that
we've got a course that's going to
potentially fix their problems. gives
them some trust that we're a great
organization to help with the demand
generation course they want to look at
give them some proof of results and and
guide them to to that product. So with
that said that's the that's the current
market. My recommendations against your
keywords like I said there would be to
go for demand generation course and
demand generation training because we
can see we can probably get the same two
keywords ranking with the same page. I'd
probably say for now demand generation
program isn't as relevant because that
tends to bring up more of an informative
based search. Um, and looking at those
top two organic results, we can see CXL
and Cognism. And we can even dive in
quickly to show you a bit of a
comparison. If I fire up ahrefs or hrefs
rather as it's meant to be pronounced, I
always forget.
>> I've actually never known how it was
meant to be pronounced. Yeah, I think I
swap between Afs and Hrefs. But yeah,
>> so if we do a quick comparison,
let's have a look here. Cool. So on HS
now, looking at Cognism's domain rating,
I mean, they've got a super strong
domain rating, 75, which is a strong
score of 100. They've got they got
30,000 back links. They're ranking for
nearly 40,000 different organic keywords
and they're getting about 157,000
organic visits each and every month. And
then if we look at the second result,
cxl.com,
again, domain rating of 85, super
strong, 125,000 backlinks, ranking for
about 48,000 keywords, getting about
57.3,000 organic visits a month. And
then have we got your website? Yeah. So
bespplaybook.com
naturally as you haven't done a ton of
SEO makes sense. So we've got a domain
rating of eight. We've got 83 to back
links. We've got 277 organic keywords
ranking. And we get about 105 organic
visits roughly per month in all
locations. So as we can see, we've not
got the easiest of challenges ahead of
us based upon our current domain rating,
our current link authority, and other
factors. But I still think there's a
fighting chance if we build if we review
these pages, how they're set up, and
build a best-in-class page, do some
smart SEO, do some smart content, and
also build some links directly to this
page, which we can dive into in a sec.
But hopefully that that sets the scene a
little bit.
>> Yeah, it's a David and Goliath story.
Let's uh I think we've set that up
nicely.
Um, fortunately our website traffic is
uh is a little bit better than what AFS
has reported. But I mean look in terms
of the other stats around domain domain
rating and authority we're certainly up
against. Um, so I I'm very very
interested to hear Sam like how you
would approach this like what strategies
should we pursue to try and get up there
with the likes of CXL and Cognism so
people see us when they search for
demand genen course or demand genen
training. So demand generation course,
demand generation training. Let's say
we're going after those main keywords.
The first thing I do is probably one of
the most simple things. So I literally
if we go back onto let's search demand
generation. So yeah, as we said, Cognism
CXL top two organic spots. I would
encourage you first and foremost based
upon what's ranking here. We've agreed
we're going to build some kind of
solution page as we want this to be
productled. We want folks to potentially
sign up to our course or at least show
interest in it. So I can imagine we can
retarget them with LinkedIn ads or other
kinds of ads once they've been on the
page and understand that they've been
been there and they're a potential high
intent prospect for us. So with that
said, first things foremost in terms of
the page structure, we can see here
we've got Cognism's metatitle is demand
generation playbook hyphen course home.
Then they've got again demand generation
playbook and course written in the meta
description. And likewise, CXL have got
similar in their metatitle demand
generation course online training at
CXL. And again, they're mentioning it in
their the meta description. So, first
and foremost, when we're building out
this page, starting from the ground up,
we've got to bear in mind that we
probably want our our main keyword
within that meta title. So, in our case,
perhaps demand generation course or
demand generation training within that
title. We could call it something like
the ultimate demand generation course,
ultimate demand generation training,
something along those lines. As long as
we've got that main keyword within
there, that'll be fine. And then
likewise, we want to make sure that's
included within that description. I
usually recommend you do a bit of a some
kind of a hook because we want this to
have a nice click-through rate cuz even
if we do get it ranking top, it's not to
say everyone's going to click it. So
perhaps I don't know if there's like a
nice hook, George, that you like to
leverage on some of your ads, i.e. if we
had the keyword demand generation course
and then maybe in brackets like hit your
SQL target for 2024. That's something I
sometimes like to sneak in in these
titles.
>> Yeah. Very nice. Very nice. No, these
are all good things for us to consider.
And this is for the for the title as
well for this uh SER result.
>> Yeah, that's it for the for the meta
title itself.
>> Right. Okay. So, we'll be limited by
like how long we can make it, but really
what we're trying to do is get the
keywords in and then have something else
in there to really increase that
click-through rate. So, like a hook
that's achieved to the outcome that
people are really chasing when they're
searching for this term. Is that right?
>> Yeah, that's it. So we want to rank for
it but at the same time we want to make
sure it's juicy enough that folks
actually click it. So for example if CXL
have got demand generation course and
then online training at CXL institute as
their metatitle we could have demand
generation course then in in brackets
something like hit your SQL targets 2024
or something that fits within the the
metatitle parameters and at the same
time has your keyword in and encourage
folks to actually click through because
it's enticing enough to have that hook
to get them to click on the page. And
then likewise, we want to make sure if
we can include demand generation course
or training within the description with
something that makes sense. So maybe
it's something like at the B2B playbook,
we're helping B2B marketers with our
demand generation course to do XYZ.
These are the problems we fix. This is
the outcome we provide. Just something
short and snappy within that
description. So again, that's maybe
something you can have a thought about,
George, and then maybe you can come back
to me and we can perhaps review that as
the first step. I'm not going to take
too much notice for now of the Cognism
page because Cognism got such a good
domain rating now that they could almost
rank for so many keywords just cuz
they're so they've got so much authority
behind their site these days. They could
publish an article and it'll probably
rank so fast because it's the site's got
so much authority within Google. Um, and
most of the page that they've built out
that's currently position one is is kind
of media. So, it's linking out to other
pages. So, CXL, which is organic
position 2, is a bit of a better example
of what we should review. Um, but let's
get into that in a sec. So, the next
thing we want to think about is a quick
10-second interruption. If you're a B2B
or SAS company that's tired of
competitors outranking you and you want
to start ranking top on Google and AI
searches and driving consistent pipeline
with organic search, grab a call with me
over at breakingb2b.com or hit the first
link in the description below. So, we've
talked about the the meta title, which
we'll work think about. The next thing
we want to look at is the heading tag
and the hero area. So the top banner
area and what's called our H1. So you
can only have one heading tag. You
should you should only have one heading
tag per page. So within that again, we
want our main target keyword. We could
go demand generation course, demand
generation training. And what have CXL
got here? Become great at demand
generation. Again, you'd probably be
best guided to to watch this what this
would say, George, but it might be like
the only demand generation training that
you need for 2024 or finally hit your
demand generation goals or something
like that. something that maybe speaks
to the outcome that folks want but at
the same time has our main keyword
within it.
>> Okay. All right. That makes sense. Yeah.
Okay.
>> And then a few kind of ground rules as
we go down. So one H1 tag and then one
thing to think about is when we're doing
other header tags be it H2, H3, H4. If
we can without keyword stuffing, we
ideally want these headings to include
our keyword in when it makes sense. So
i.e. If we're talking about things like
when we're talking about the course
benefits or the course program, how the
course works, FAQs, if we can weave in
demand generation training or demand
generation course within those, then
that again is is useful. Just tells
Google this is what the page is about.
So that's just some some ground rules to
consider. So first and foremost, this
reviewing this page at CXL, again, it's
quite a long form page. It's got in
terms of content, it's got just under
3,000 words. So that gives us a
guideline. Ideally, you want to do about
a similar amount of content, perhaps a
little bit more based upon the fact that
your site is lower in domain rating and
we can meet against some well
authoritative pages. So, give me an
idea, George, what did you have in mind
for this page? Did you have anything any
preconceptions of how you were going to
format your own page? Uh, I I mean,
look, we we do have a page currently for
the B2B incubator, but it's not
optimized to to show this at all. But I
imagine I would just have to rework a
lot of the information in there. At the
moment, um, the page is very much
structured and reflective of the
conversations and words that we hear
from our dream customers from what they
want the program to be. And most of the
traffic that comes from here is probably
directed from our LinkedIn or people who
hear about it on the podcast or people
who are on the B2B playbook.com and see
that this is something else that we do.
So at the moment build your demand
engine in 12 weeks like that's kind of
the the outcome that we know people are
chasing when they come to us.
>> Yeah. And then there's just an
explanation there which then is all
around we give B2B marketers and small
teams the strategy templates and tools
that they need to drive more revenue for
their business. So just explaining
further who it's for, what you get and
what the outcome will be. Uh reviews to
to build trust and then we start going
into the problems. uh there's a title
there struggling to drive leads and
revenue and we just call out the things
that B2B marketers and small teams
really struggle with and we try and
agitate that problem as much as possible
and then we start bridging the gap to a
solution where we say look your job
isn't to get more leads it's to drive
more revenue and then we're explaining
what's wrong with the traditional lead
genen model and then uh yeah we build
that bridge to say really what you
should be looking at is demand
generation demand generation is going to
fix your problems and this is what your
life looks like before demand generation
and this is what it looks like after.
Some more explanation around the
program. We have our session plan with
some screenshots there as to what's in
the program. Some happy people who are
part of the program. Uh the fact that
you get a certificate of demand
generation as well reiterating what you
get over those 12 weeks. So we've just
got some icons just to quickly visualize
what people get. FAQs around the
program, the application that people
need to fill out if they want to apply
to join the program, some reviews, and
some extended reviews, and finally a uh
60-day money back guarantee. That's what
it is currently.
>> Okay. So, the format's good. The
format's good. The only thing is there's
there's a few things to consider. So,
depending on the traffic that this page
gets, we could even use it, but we'd
have to change the URL. So something I
should have mentioned earlier is right
now we've got the
b2bplaybook.com/thebtby
incubator but we ideally want our main
focus keyword within that URL itself. So
that might be the b2bplaybook.com/demand
generation
training or it might be demand
generation um course. So we want that
within the URL itself. Again that's
that's going to help us. It just makes
it a little bit easier to rank and
easier for Google to pick it up. So
that's one thing to consider. We want it
in our metitle description and the
keyword within the URL itself. So
demand. So forward/demand hyphen
generation hyphen training. So we could
use this page, but it depends how open
you are to reformatting it. It might
just be easier to take some of the best
bits of it and then kind of slice and
dice that into a new all single dancing
page. I I would prefer to create a new
page entirely if possible because like I
know this one performs well from us when
people are led to it through LinkedIn or
other places cuz it's very like a user
customercentric
is you how we've tried to build it but
it's probably not overly Google friendly
for what we're trying to rank for. So
you think maybe building a separate page
is okay? Yeah, let's let's go for a
separate page. Then we can kind of pull
the best bits from that. Not not copy
the content over, like tweak the
content, tweak the wording, and kind of
maybe maybe add some extras into it as
well. So, if I if I fire up my screen
again, if you end this one, I'll fire up
my screen and show you a couple quick
things. So, let's have a look. If I dive
into HFS, just looking at the keyword
explorer. So, demand generation
training. It's flagging up on HFS is an
easy to rank keyword. So, that's a good
start. Zero difficulty out of 100. So,
that's always nice. And we can see if we
scroll down like we can see cognism and
CXL top two results. It says here I
think you had slightly different in
terms of potential traffic but like I
say some some tools vary in terms of the
overall traffic potential but it's
setting about 80 or so global search
volume but you got to remember SEO tools
are always working on historic data. So
never everything's kind of 100%
accurate. And then likewise if we look
up demand generation course that looks
slightly more difficult but three out of
100 in terms of difficulty. Traffic
potential global search volume flagging
is 50. Then again we can see cognism
same pages CXL same pages ranking top.
So that's a good start. We're not going
for super competitive keywords. We've
got a basis of a page that we can kind
of rework and we can we can we know what
we're doing in terms of metatitle meta
description. We know that we want to
have that main keyword within the the
URL itself. And we know that our heading
tags are H1, which you only want one of,
needs to have our focus keyword in. And
likewise, as we go down the page, H2s,
H3s, H4s, if we can weave in that main
domain domain generation training or
course within there, we want to do such.
>> Sam,
>> yeah,
>> I was going to say Sam, while you're on
that uh on that page, would you mind
having a look at B2B marketing course?
because you know we've obviously niched
down in demand generation but much of
what we talk about and teach is like
good B2B marketing fundamental and I'm
just curious as to like what the search
volume is around that around B2B
marketing course or B2B marketing
training and then maybe it's worth
having that conversation as to you know
why we should or shouldn't pursue that
instead.
>> Good question. B2B marketing course
let's have a look. So difficulty wise
fair bit higher in terms of keyword
difficulty. I mean keyword difficulty on
tools like HS isn't the be all end all.
It's flagging up as 13 and saying it's
medium difficulty. What have we got?
Global search volume 700 US 150 organic
visits per month roughly. What's ranking
top? Well, we've got LinkedIn ranking
top. Then we've got a site called
Corsera and then Udemy and then
Forester. So, we've got some quite
well-known coursebased sites, it looks
like. So, this could be quite a lot more
difficult to rank for. But that said,
let's have a look at LinkedIn's page.
It's ranking top. As we know, LinkedIn
have got their own learning section.
They've got a ton of content here. It's
not even a kind of detailed page. It's
literally just a page outlining a few of
their courses with hardly any copy at
all, but basically piggybacking off the
domain and reputational authority that
LinkedIn has, they can they can rank
these kind of pages fairly easily. What
else have we got? Corsera, which is
second or third position. And again,
that's looks like they've got a course
there. I mean, it could be something
that we chip away at long term for for
the example of this experiment. How much
of a time frame are you giving us,
George, for this?
>> I think uh look, the sooner the better,
right? If we can get quicker results
with a demand generation course, I'd
rather go after that because that's
where we're really trying to make a name
for ourselves and that's where we've
really niched down. So, I feel like
there's also a a better fit for us and
then perhaps, you know, after we get
wins there, then there's incentive to,
as you said, chip away at something like
B2B marketing course long-term. What are
your thoughts there as to how a business
should usually usually approach
something like this? So I would go more
always lean towards more niche and
specific to your exact offering. So
demand generation course, demand
generation training I think leans more
into what you talk about on the podcast,
the content that you share and what you
build out and what your company stands
for. And I think it's probably going to
be more relevant whereas B2B marketing
as we know could be could mean a wide
range of things. anything from B from
Google ads, LinkedIn ads to demand
generation to any SEO to basically
anything that falls under the B2B
marketing umbrella. So, it's a lot
broader for starters. Also, it seems to
be more competitive. So, it might make
sense to start with a demand generation
focused keywords. I don't mind at all
looking at B2B marketing course and
trying to build out build out a page and
slowly chip away at ranking that as well
for you. And perhaps that could be
something we do a little later. I think
as a starter though and if we want to do
something a bit more short term, I think
demand generation training of course
would just be a nice quicker win.
>> Yeah, let's let's do that. Absolutely.
And that's probably a good lesson for
our listeners and viewers as well is to
to chase those money keywords that match
your niche the most even if the search
volume isn't as high and you're probably
going to get faster wins with it. Is
that right, Sam? And then you can
reinvest that into like knocking off the
next tier.
>> Yeah, there's there's a few things to
it, right? is a lot of SEO is about
matching user intent. So, someone's
probably not searching demand generation
course for fun. Like, they're not just
bored one day and thinking, "Oh, demand
generation training or demand generation
course." They're probably searching it
because they genuinely need help with
the offering. Um, and they are someone
that's thought, "Yeah, demand generation
is perhaps a skill set that I'm lacking
in. So, let's see what's showing up on
Google. Let's have a browse of what
companies are ranking top. Let's click
into their page. see if they actually
match what I'm looking to to do. And on
the basis that that page gives them the
information that they're looking for, is
trustworthy, is helpful, addresses their
concerns, their questions, then they may
well book onto the course or they may
well be a prospect that you can then
kind of maybe get into your lead magnet
or get into your funnel or even retarget
potentially if they fit that ICP. So,
yeah, I would always always lean towards
niches. Um, and there's nothing wrong
with going for broader keywords. It's
just like we've shown there, they're
often more competitive. They might not
attract the exact type of prospect that
you want, but long-term they can drive
more traffic to your site. They can
drive more potential leads. It just more
competitive for your company.
>> Okay, makes a lot of sense. I appreciate
you going into that. And sorry to
sidetrack us. Um,
>> good.
>> So, we we reviewed the uh the search
volume, we reviewed the domain ratings
and the keyword difficulty. What's what
are we going to look at next?
>> Yeah. So, let's look at the structure of
your page. So, if we remind ourselves,
so for example, the CXL page that's
ranking for those two keywords we're
going after, it's about 3,000 words. If
we look at your site here, it's quite
long form. I don't know if I can check
now how many um words it's got. Oh,
nice. So, it looks like the B2B
incubator page has got about 4.4K words.
So, it's quite a long form page. So,
it's actually quite a nice page to pull
some info for for this demand generation
training page we're going to use. So, as
we said, we want to make sure that the
URL is going to be relevant. So, when we
rebuild this page, it probably be the
B2Bplaybook.com/demand
generation course or similar. And we
talk about the title tags and so on. So,
let's talk about this hero area. Um, in
the H1, we probably want something
related to demandation course or
training. A YouTube video is great.
You've already got a YouTube video
embedded right in the top hero area.
Love this because there's a number of
benefits. I've always found that Google
favors pages that have got YouTube
videos embedded. From everything that
I've done, they seem to rank a bit
better. Naturally, Google runs YouTube,
so they might have a bias towards it.
Also, they can sometimes improve your
click-through rate. So, what you'll
sometimes find is when in the Google
organic search results, sometimes the
search engine results pages have little
images next to them. So, sometimes your
little video can show up as a little
thumbnail in that search result and
improve your click-through rate. And
also, sometimes they can show in the
video section as well. So if you've got
a relevant video in that top hero area,
it's sometimes a nice unfair advantage.
So you've got that already. So what we
want to do is we want to tailor this
this page a bit more so it's relevant to
to the course. But the good thing is a
lot of this probably is. So a lot of it
is probably taking this content and then
reworking it and reformatting it and
kind of freshening it up. So making sure
we've got the relevant keyword in the
the top heading. So it might be
something like our demand generation
course will enable you to to build a
demand genine within 12 12 weeks
something like that within your main H1
and then you can probably keep a similar
bit of subtext here where it talks about
giving B2B marketers and school teams
the strategy they need to to kind of
drive more revenue in their business. A
lot of this stuff we can probably pull
out. Then you've got a call to action to
apply for the next cohort which is
great. Some subt that talk about kind of
more of the benefits. Some social proof
which is always great for a page like
this. Apply for deadlines. So, a lot of
this page and then we're diving into
kind of like you said the problems that
B2B marketers might face if they kind of
fit your ICP. So, a lot of this stuff we
can kind of rework and build out in this
page. So, it gives us a really good
template of what's going to work well.
The only thing we want to consider,
George, is is kind of making sure that
it's not a complete copy. So, reworking
the text so it's fresh, so it's not a
clone. And again, in some of these title
tags, making sure they've got the main
keyword that we're going after. But a
lot of this because you've got this
framework and you've got a quite healthy
page that's good in word count with
about 4 4.4K words. A lot of this we can
repurpose unless there is other bits and
pieces that you think might be useful.
So one thing that I'd probably say that
we want to leverage so as we scroll down
the page we can see that you actually
get into the product itself which is
great which I'd advise anyway. You talk
about what the plan is, what's involved
in the course, how it works like weeks 1
to 5, weeks 5 to 10 which is all great
stuff. weeks 11 to 12, you've got
regular call to actions, you've got
regular social proof. So, you're
following a lot of the best practices
that I'd share anyway as we build these
kind of pages out. And you've got some
solid FAQs. So, a lot of this is really
good stuff that I'd use anyway on long
form pages that are solutionbased that
we actually want folks to take action on
on this kind of page. So, a lot of it
follows SEO um best practice in terms of
kind of CRO in terms of actually getting
folks to stay engaged on the page, build
trust with social proof, examples, show
the product in action, have regular
calls to action, show them the problem,
show them the impact and not fixing the
problem, show them this new better way.
And a lot of that is already weaved into
this B2B incubator pages. So, a lot of
it is just following about SEO best
practices around metatitle, description,
heading, tags, URL. You've got some good
FAQ. So, one thing I would say is right
at the bottom of the page, you've got a
whole bunch of FAQs, but I would try and
again, a lot of these we can reuse and
rework. So, you've got things like, can
you tell me more about what I'll learn
on the course? Who is it for, who
shouldn't it be for, which is great.
What I'd do is try and weave in the
target keyword within these. So, some of
these we can we can reuse, but for
example, who is our demand generation
course for, who is a demand generation
course not for, um, can any demand
generation marketer use this? So, it's
not keyword stuffing, but it's making
sure it's actually showing Google that
we're talking about the subject at hand.
And this is quite literally, I know we
talked about at the start of this
episode where I got B2B SEO agency
ranked organic position one in 90 days.
That's basically what I did. I talked
about the the offer, talked about the
process, talked about the problems folks
might face, the impact if they don't
invest in B2B SEO, the new better way,
how our solution works, and then at the
bottom of the page, FAQs around this
kind of stuff. So yeah, if we can weave
in any FAQs around demand generation
course pricing, how it works, what's
involved, which you've got already on
the B2B incubator page. So a lot of this
is just taking that good stuff and
reworking it from demand generation
course perspective, if that all makes
sense.
>> Yeah. Yeah, that's great. Okay, so good
that we're not going to have to do a
complete overhaul, but we're going to
have to make it more SEO friendly. and
they're all fantastic tips to improve it
in terms of the way the content is
structured and having those FAQs in like
an accordion section. Does that make a
difference or like Google's pretty good
at reading into that and they understand
all of that so it doesn't matter.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And this is something
once you perhaps you build out V1 of the
page and publish it. So this is
something that I encourage generally
this is just a good good SEO practice
like so many folks hopefully a lot of
listeners some will be some won't. I'd
imagine some some marketers tuning in
are probably in real large scale
organizations where it takes a lot of
time to to get things greenlighted and
signed off and then eventually pass the
content through to developers and then
eventually published. Whereas there's
probably folks at the other end of the
spectrum where they're scrappy B2B
marketers where they can pretty much
publish something as soon as it's ready.
So the advantage we've got being a small
business, George, is that we can kind of
create these pages. We can build them
out and we can publish them to our
website. Is your website built on
WordPress?
>> Yes, it is. Yeah.
>> Nice. So it's it's relatively easy to
kind of build out these pages, get the
content up there and publish it. And the
good thing is is even if you've kind of
followed everything we've discussed,
you've published it up there, we can
optimize over time. So one thing I I say
with when it comes to SEO is work out
what you want to do. So in our case,
work out the target keywords you want to
go after. work out what the intent
behind the page is. So we we talked
about that we want to go for in our case
demand generation course and demand
generation training because those
keywords are current results are high
intent pages. They're folks looking for
a solution. They're not informative
based keywords. We assess what ranks
well. So now let's build out the page.
Let's publish it. Let's optimize later.
Let's do those best practices. If we see
after a few weeks the page is still not
ranking, then let's look for gaps in it.
Let's perhaps add a bit more copy. Let's
add a few more FAQs. Maybe add some more
social proof. Maybe go in depth on a bit
more topics. I always encourage folks to
publish fast, see how it works, give
Google a bit of time to index the page
and pick it up and then optimize it. But
what we can talk about to fast track
this process now we've talked about what
we're going to do on the page. Perhaps
we can dive into how we can build some
authority to the page maybe with some
backlinks and some processes to
basically juice up this page, show
Google it's a trustworthy page and fast
track it ranking.
>> Yeah, that was going to be my next
question. like I've got some ideas in
terms of uh internal linking and um like
I I would you know love to hear your
thoughts about that as well and then how
to go about getting some back links and
strategies around that too. Um when it
comes to internal linking uh just going
to bring up on my screen we've been
preparing for this a little bit and
basically we're releasing a demand
generation miniseries um where it's like
an 11p part miniseries that like all
articles lead on to each other answering
all the commonly asked questions we get
around demand generation starting from
what is demand genen when's the right
time to do it how to build a winning
business case for it should you start
from scratch. Um, how to transition from
lead genen to demand gen, our framework
to help with that, how to budget for it.
And each article is like pretty indepth
like this as well. It's got a YouTube
video, it's got a podcast episode as
well. Um, and some are starting to rank
on their own as well. And so I'm hoping
we might be able to leverage some of
these as well in our internal linking. I
don't know. Uh, but I just wanted to
share that with you in case that might
be helpful.
>> That's great. I mean, that's right. So,
we want we want this new page that we're
building out to be easily crued by
Google. So, like you mentioned there, we
want some internal links. So, the good
thing about your site is you've got
quite a bit of content within the blog,
within other pages already. So, if we
can quickly show Google that it's it's
going to be easy for it to crawl. So, if
we can weave in the keyword that we're
going for. So, in this case, demand
generation course or demand generation
training. If we can find some relevant
pages on your site which you've got
you've brought up demand generation key
KPIs what to measure. If we can find a
relevant piece of content with that page
put the keyword demand generation course
link that out internally to this new
page and if we can do that on a few
pages or articles within your site where
it fits nicely and where it's relevant
then that's just going to make it easier
for Google to crawl. And likewise that
might be something we want to do within
the new page we're building out. I.e. if
there's any sections where we're talking
about perhaps other services you offer,
whether that is LinkedIn ads, whether is
maybe another topic that you've covered
on the podcast, another subsector, and
then if you can again do an internal
link from that new page to some relevant
pages, perhaps three or four internal
links might be quite nice just to to
make those crawable. And again, that all
helps with our the SEO plan that we're
doing. So that's that's a good point.
So, in terms of um fasttracking this
process, let's say we've built out our
best-in-class page. We followed all
those technical SEO processes we've
talked about. We've made this a really
useful solution page. Like, we've showed
folks like this is the problem you're
facing. This is probably impact of not
doing it. Here's why we're well suited
to help you. Here's some examples that
we've done for other folks. Here's the
actual product in action. This is what
the course is about. Here's a call to
action. Here's some FAQs, some
objections you might have. And here's uh
here's kind of why you should consider
us.
addressing all that head on. Now, we
want to juice up the page. We want to
get some back links. So, the good thing
about yourself, George, is that you've
probably one of the quickest wins, I
think, for you. I always talk about when
it comes to backlinks, leveraging
partners because they're one of the
quickest wins to do it. But in your
case, you've probably guessed it on
quite a few podcasts, I'd imagine, over
the over the years.
>> Yes, that's correct. Yep. Quite a few.
>> Yeah. The good thing about yourself, and
we can talk about examples for other
folks, but the good thing about yourself
is you can tap into all those all those
shows that have had you on, and I'd
imagine nearly all those shows are
probably built out an article or similar
for each and every episode. So there is
sites, I think one is called listen
notes where you can actually type in
your name. So we could quite literally
go on to listen notes and
we could search for your name, George.
And the good thing about this site is we
can quite literally bring up all the
episodes that you've guessed on. So that
would be one of the quickest wins for
you. That's that's a little bit of a
hack. So something I did. So if I So
naturally this isn't apply to everyone,
but I'll talk about how this can be
relevant for other B2B marketers. So as
example my name like once I built out as
we talked about the start the B2B SEO
agency page in our case in your case it
would be demand generation training page
you can go onto a site like listen notes
this would be good for for anyone that
guests regularly on podcast you can type
in your own name and it will bring up
all the pot shows that you've guested on
and for me this was a really quick way
of remembering what I've been on and
then I reached out to all these folks on
LinkedIn which you could do the same
George you can literally just type in
your own name and it'll bring up a list
of all the shows you've guested on and
then you You can literally just DM these
folks on LinkedIn and just say, "Thanks
for having me on the show recently." Um,
bit of a cheeky one, but could you
quickly go to the article page and what
I'd do to make it easy for them is I'd
probably bring up the article, link it
in the DM, and just say, "Would you mind
linking back to this target keyword is
this one we're trying to rank at the
moment, and link link to this page." So,
in your case, do you mind weaving in
George's co-founder at the B2B marketing
playbook? he runs a demand generation
course and then do that as a as an
anchored link back to your site that I'd
imagine you've probably guested on quite
a few podcasts over the years, George.
That would probably be a really quick
win for you if you just dig out those
podcasts you guessed on, reach out to
those hosts and ask them to link to
that.
>> Yeah, that's an unreal idea. Absolutely.
And we've always tried to maintain
relationships with those people too. So
hopefully they'll do us a solid.
>> That's probably one of the quickest
ones. Then another way which most folks
can leverage is partners. So not
necessarily podcasts but that could be
existing clients, customers within your
network, friends, anyone that serves a
similar kind of ICP idol client profile
um but isn't a direct competitor. So you
can reach out to these folks and
basically say I'm up for creating some
content for you. So you want to do them
a bit of a solid. So it might be I'm I'm
proposing to build out a useful article
for your site or maybe a useful video or
something that's of value for them and
their audience. So in my case, I just
reviewed their website. I came up with I
reached out to a bunch of SAS companies
basically were in my network on LinkedIn
or that I was friends with or that I
knew from perhaps prospects or customers
and basically said, "Look, I'm I'm up
for doing a guest article on your site.
Let me know what topic you want it to be
on." built out an article that was kind
of vaguely rel related to my sector and
their sector. We I said, "Look, I do
need a do follow backlink to to this
page for this target keyword." Nine out
of 10 of the people I asked said yes.
And the good thing about this, George,
is that you probably won't need that
many backlinks because this keyword's
relatively low difficulty. We'd
probably, from my experience, only need
kind of four or five, maybe a few more
links. The more the merrier, of course.
And that would give us quite a good
reputation and domain boost, I think. So
yeah, leveraging partners, leveraging
existing network if needed, offering to
to build them a piece of content. But I
think in your case, George, you probably
wouldn't need to do much of that because
you've probably guessed on quite a few
podcasts over the over the years. So you
could probably just piggy back off that
and those relationships and just ask
them to to link back to the man
generation training of course and I
think you'd probably get quite a nice
boost.
>> That's a great shout. So uh in terms of
the anchor text that we use, it should
contain demand generation course. Does
it matter if like a few words either
side are linked or do we just want
demand generation course to be strictly
linked? Like how do we handle that?
>> Yeah, you can do it naturally. So for
example, when I did it, I think we I
think the anchor text was professional
B2B SEO agency. So it doesn't have to be
strictly the the key as long as the
keywords within there. So it might be
like try their demand generation course
or or something like that. You could do
it just to the keyword or you could add
another word on there before or after
just so it sounds a bit more natural
within the context of however they've
done the write up on the article just so
it weaves in there a bit more naturally
rather than just a random keyword jammed
in.
>> Okay. All right. Fantastic. Well, that's
a great action plan then. So I want to
try and get four or five of those. I'm
going to reach out to people that are
guested on their podcast as a as a first
port of call cuz that's you know the
lowest lift for me as well. Where where
two from here Sam? So I need to go away
and I need to go and create that page
based on the best practice and what
you've recommended and and then should
we have another session once once I've
I've done that after a couple of weeks
of that being published and or maybe
another couple of weeks after I've gone
and got those back links to that there.
>> Yeah, let's do it all. I mean, how long
do you think you'll need to
take that template, rework that page,
sort out the URL of a new page, build
out the metadata, build out the heading
tags, build out the fresh copy and those
structural changes? Like, how do you
think how long do you think you need
roughly?
>> Oh, probably about 10 days.
>> Okay. And then meanwhile, whilst you're
doing that, maybe if you can start
prepping some of the partners, some of
your networks, some of the podcasts that
you've been on and just start prepping
them for it so they're ready and raring
to go to get that that link sorted on
their articles. So let if we catch up
in, I don't know, 2 weeks, 10 days or
so. And then you you'll have that page
published. Maybe we catch up in 3 weeks.
So it gives Google a bit of time to
crawl it. Um if we need a bit longer, we
can. And then we can kind of see how
it's tracking and hopefully that that'll
give it a bit of time and then we can
see if we need to make any revisions to
the page or add a few more links or that
kind of stuff. And also we need to do
those internal links we talked about.
>> Yeah. Okay. Awesome. Well, I'll I'll go
ahead and do that and I'll let you know
how we go and hopefully we'll book in
another chat in about 3 weeks time or
so. U maybe four if I get bogged down.
But because we are going to be releasing
the results as we go. Thank you so much,
Sam, for your time. I really, really
appreciate it, mate. And excited to get
cracking on this one. Cheers.
Today, I'm very excited because we're
sharing the results of our live SEO
experiment where we wanted to see how
fast could we rank in Google search
using SEO for our money keyword. Last
episode, we caught up and I told you, I
said, Sam, I want you to help me rank
for our money keyword. And our money
keyword is demand generation course
because that's what we sell with the B2B
playbook. Now you very helpfully did
some keyword research and you found I
think there were two actually two
keywords that were really useful. It was
demand generation course and demand
generation training. Both are trending
up and roughly 100 to 200 searches per
month.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I think we looked at a
couple, didn't we, when we did the
previous episode. And I think a couple
we thought just weren't worth targeting
mainly for the the search volume. And I
also think the the results pages that
were showing for a couple of the
keywords were just not really relevant.
I.e. they were bringing up like long
form how-to articles when we want to be
ranking a landing page. So almost if we
went for a couple of those alternative
keywords that we were looking at last
time that it would be an uphill battle
trying to rank a landing page where
Google expects kind of howto or
informativebased articles if that makes
sense. So I think we derived on demand
genen course as one of our primary
keywords because we thought that would
be attracting high intent prospects that
are kind of in market for your offer and
ready to have that sales conversation if
they do land on the page.
>> So that's the one that you gave us.
That's the one that you then gave us a
strategy to execute. I'm going to share
with everyone what we did to execute
that strategy and the results that came
from it. Before we got into that, I also
noticed Sam that probably quite a good
thing is the year-on-year change in
search volume for demand generation
course uh 90% up year on year which I
suppose suggested again another sign
that this is a keyword worth investing
in because it is very closely aligned to
our business and perhaps because it's
growing too. Is that fair to say? I
think if you rewind back probably 3,
four, maybe a little bit longer, demand
genen wasn't something that was really
widely talked about, certainly in my
circles anyway. It wasn't until probably
for me 2021 when I started listening to
podcasts like Chris Walkers and other
folks and of course your guys podcast
that I really understood what demand
generation even meant. I think it's
becoming more and more known as a term
and people are starting to realize that
this is a a solid way to go to market
and and like you say, Google's
reflecting that because more folks are
searching for this kind of stuff trying
to get stuck in.
>> Well, let's hope it continues to grow.
Okay, on to results. So, um Sam gave us
a strategy and then I think 60 something
days later we actually hit number one
which was pretty fantastic. We were
planning on having another episode, Sam,
weren't we? Between the one where you
gave us the strategy and the one where
we did these results because I thought
we were going to get stuck somewhere,
you know, maybe bottom of page one, top
of page two, and we need your advice on
how to really progress to number one.
But Sam, number one, you've done it.
>> Yeah. Yeah, it was quicker than I was
expecting. I mean, you're going to share
the the outcomes, the result, cuz that's
the main thing, the actual book leads
and and sales revenue off the back end.
It was quicker than I expected. But at
the same time, George, you were very
proactive with the recommendations that
I provided both for the landing page,
the technical SEO, the content strategy,
and going out there and and building
some decent back links with potential
partners, which perhaps we can dive into
in a sec of because this is quite a
competitive keyword, and I don't know if
you want to disclose some of the
competitors. It's entirely up to you,
but there were some big B2B SAS B2B kind
of service-based giants that were
ranking above us initially. So, the only
way really even with a best-in-class
page that follows kind of good technical
SEO guidelines, has really useful,
helpful content that kind of shares on
the landing page, problem you fix,
impact of that problem, proof that
you're the person or the company to help
them with results, addresses common
questions, concerns, problems, and all
that good stuff. and then kind of really
positions you as a trustworthy source
with social proof and all all that kind
of stuff folks would want to see on a a
landing page to be convinced that you're
the right option for the course they're
they're looking to invest in. But that
aside, without backlinks for these kind
of competitive terms, you're you're
going to be fighting an uphill battle.
So, I know you did a good job, George,
kind of sourcing partners and building
some nice links to juice up this
ranking.
>> Yeah, I want to take people through some
of those recommendations you gave me on
how to how to go about getting them
with, you know, not too much effort. But
look, I'll disclose the the competitors
that we got past because I I think it's
worth it. It's a good achievement. Uh we
got past Cognism, um CXL, you know, and
their own demand genen course, the
online marketing institute, Pavilion. Uh
I mean, these are all our top
competitors and we just absolutely flew
past them as we continued to execute and
implement the strategies that you gave
us.
>> Great stuff. Yeah. And I think I saw
HubSpot flying up for a few similar
keywords. So, it's not all bad.
>> Yeah, absolutely.
So, we created the page on the 2nd of
June, Sam, that you told me to create to
to really try and rank for this keyword.
We already had a landing page for the
B2B incubator, which is our demand
generation course, and you recommended,
you know, if we wanted to keep that,
let's just create a whole separate new
one. And that's what we did. So we
created that on the 2nd of June and I
think we hit number one spot on the 8th
of August. So it took us 67 days which
is probably pretty quick in your view
Sam would you say?
>> Yeah I mean there's a few things to
consider. First and foremost I think we
talked about on the previous episode but
maybe not the your website itself
doesn't have like a ton of domain rating
or domain authority. So bearing in mind
I'll check it in a sec whilst we're
whilst we're chatting but bearing in
mind that was fairly low. we're almost
fighting an uphill battle. So, I'm sure
if you looked at sites like Cognism or
CXL, they're going to have a super high
domain authority, probably somewhere
like 60, 70 or even higher, whereas I
think yours was around 20, possibly a
bit lower. So, almost starting an uphill
battle. Add to that, we had to create a
fresh page. So, we didn't have anything
there already that we were enhancing. We
were almost going from scratch. But of
course, you had the the template there
that we could rejig, take some good
stuff out in terms of the design and
framework, but we still had to put
together the content from scratch.
Obviously, create a brand new page, then
show Google that this was a page worth
picking up. And I think you might
mention in a minute kind of internally
linking from some other relevant pages
on your site to help Google crawl it.
And then doing the stuff like once we
decided on the the focus keyword
including that in the URL so it was your
domain.comdemand
generation course including that in the
H1 heading tag including that in the the
meta description meta title and I know
you did a a nice meta title so when
you're when folks are crawling scrolling
through the Google results it's got a
bit of a hook in that title that they
see in the search engine result page
which also helps with with clickthrough
rates. Okay. What was yours George that
you decided on for that? Uh, I think I
actually went with the one that you gave
me. Demand generation course. Then
square brackets crush 2024 revenue
goals. So probably well aligned to the
outcome that people want. And then the
description again mentions the keyword
demand generation. This 12week course
gives you the strategy, templates, and
tools you need to deliver a
best-in-class B2B demand generation
program. Top rated.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And I think I think what
I've seen anyway confuses kind of B2B
marketers and B2B founders when they're
getting stuck into SEO is there's a lot
of folks in the SEO world talk so much
about technical SEO. And I'm probably
almost the opposite. I'll do the very
least technical SEO that I can get away
with to get a page ranking because from
experience anyway, until you get to
pages with hundreds and hundreds or even
thousands of pages, technical SEO
doesn't matter that much from sites
we've ranked. And what I mean by that is
worrying about kind of getting a 100 at
100 page speed. As long as your p
website loads fast, it's fine. Making
sure everything's kind of perfectly
aligned. going into things like
JavaScript and messing around with all
that stuff and really worrying deeply
about navigation. As long as you follow
the basics, i.e. the website loads
quickly, your main URL actually has the
focus keyword in your heading one tag
has a focus keyword in um your metatag
and description have it within and then
the actual page intent is built to what
Google expects. So what I mean by that
is when someone searches for example
demand generation course that typically
comes up with landing pages but
sometimes when you type in your keyword
on Google that might come up with
product listicicals or it might come
with that information how-to article or
it might come up with a comparison
article so you need to understand the
intent of the type of page that Google
expects to rank and then you need to
review what the current top one top two
organic pages are and look for gaps in
those pages of how you can basically
show Google that and your focus clients
your dream clients that you're more
helpful more useful, more trustworthy.
You understand their world better. You
can differentiate your product, your
service, your offer, all within that
page. So, a lot of the tips and ideas I
give are more around thinking about the
end user or the end prospect and how can
we really show them as well as Google
that we're kind of well positioned not
only to rank, but we've got to remember
we want to convert with this page. So,
there's no point just chucking a bunch
of text and doing some technical SEO on
a page. We actually want someone to land
on this page and think, well, this this
looks good. Yep, they understand the
problem I fix. They understand the
problem I'm facing rather. Yep, they
understand my world. Yep, that I am
struggling with that. And and yes, I I
do want to see some examples of other
customers that they've helped and yeah,
let's let's book on to this or let's
book a call or whatever that call to
action is. So, I think that gets lost
with a lot of kind of SEO advice. It's
kind of more technical rather than
thinking, well, these are these are
folks that have the same frustrations,
problems, concerns that you do when
you're investing in B2B offerings. let's
kind of position oursel in in their
shoes if that makes sense
>> and something we'll get into a little
bit later but perhaps why Sam the
pipeline that came from this page was so
strong if you look up we had what 120
sessions over 60s something days so look
it's not an enormous amount of traffic
but it's like very good targeted traffic
and I think the reason why we'll see
that this quality pipeline that's come
from it is to your point there right
we're speaking exactly to the pains to
the problems that the people who are
searching this are facing.
>> And that's it. And that's another trap.
I think we talked about it in the first
episode I was on with yourself. A
massive trap in SEO, B2B SEO, SAS SEO is
that marketers, founders get stuck in
the the traffic, high traffic keywords,
but unfortunately they tend to usually
be moreformational based. So they'll go
into tools like HFS or Semrush or Uber
Suggest. They'll look for keywords
relevant to their industry. And that
might be something like how to do
something or best ways to do something
or that kind of stuff. and it has a ton
of traffic. But when it comes to the
more commercial keywords, so in your
case, demand generation course or in my
world that might be B2B SEO agency or
SAS SEO agency like these real high
intent keywords that folks type on
Google when they actually want to speak
to a salesperson or invest in the offer.
They often have way less search volume,
but because the the intent behind it is
so much higher, there's so much more
commercial value, it doesn't matter.
there'll be less people landing on the
page, but as long as your page does all
those things we just talked about, then
you're actually going to get more on the
back end in terms of leads or demos or
sales calls or whatever your end goal
is. So, it's one of those things. Don't
don't be deluded by high traffic as long
as the the kind of keyword represents
what a target client would actually
search when they want to speak to
someone on your offer.
>> Yeah, it's fantastic advice. Um just as
part of the educational material that we
try to create, we did create a a landing
page an article around what is demand
generation which is something that gets
way bigger search volume which is
naturally a lot more competitive but
even as our page climbs up the rankings
I mean person who's searching that could
have a very very different intent right
to demand generation course it's much
further up a funnel.
>> Exactly. And it's not that that type of
SEO doesn't have its place. It's still
useful. It just means that that person,
like you said, is more looking to
understand what demand generation is and
they might get some tips from the page.
They might then check out your podcast
or they might sign up to your email list
or they might check out your YouTube
channel or they might check out another
asset. So, you're kind of keeping them
within your ecosystem. But because
they're so much earlier in their
journey, it's extremely unlikely that
they're then going to sign up to your
course, but they might, like you say,
subscribe to one of those assets and 6
months, 12 months down the line, they
might become a customer or they might
refer a customer. Yeah, great point. And
I suppose this is why you say with SEO,
you should kind of start from the bottom
up in terms of the funnel because I mean
if someone is investing resources in
SEO, you know, we want to get a return
sooner rather than later. So that's
generally your approach, isn't it Sam?
Is you do look for those money keywords
first.
>> Yeah, exactly. I think you've said
similar for demand generation, but I
always think of if I imagined the
marketing budget as a barrel, I would
imagine things like outbound sales,
Google ads, LinkedIn ads, event
marketing, influencer marketing,
partnerships, and right at the bottom of
that investment, that budget barrel
would be SEO, scraping the bottom,
fighting for its life to get budget or
resource from the team. So I always
think well if we've got such li limited
cash or resource to invest in SEO let's
make sure the work we do is going to
have the biggest impact in the shortest
amount space of time. So for that reason
yeah let's focus on what we call quote
unquote money keywords i.e. What is a
prospect going to search when they're
wanting to have a sales conversation
conversation around our offer now? When
they're directly searching for the
product or service or when they're
comparing us to alternatives or when
they're really kind of they know what
they want and we just need to understand
what are those search terms that they're
searching when they are needing that
product or that service. So start there
and then work up the funnel. Whether
that's doing that and then exhausting
that bottom of the funnel for every
niche, every service, every industry and
every variation of that keyword and then
going up to moreformational based
searches once you have completely
exhausted bottom funnel.
>> Great. It totally aligns with our
approach to marketing in general makes a
lot of sense. Take that bottom up
approach. Speaking to uh what we were
saying earlier around some of the
changes that we needed to make to our
landing page that we created. As I said,
we already had an existing landing page
for the B2B incubator, which is our
demand generation course. Um for those
who are watching, I've got that here on
the left and I just wanted to show a
little before and after just so people
can get a feel for the kinds of changes
we made on the page um based on your
recommendations. on the before um our H1
our title was just build your demand
genen engine in 12 weeks. So we've got
demand genen in the title but not demand
genen course which is what we're trying
to rank for. So the page that we went
and created we followed your advice Sam
and we just wrote the ultimate demand
generation course crush your revenue
targets in 2024. So that also really
nicely matches the title um that we have
when people view it on Google. uh it
matches their immediate need and it's
good for Google too, right? Because we
have demand generation course in that H1
there.
>> Yeah. Yeah, that's it. I mean, H1 is is
a big impact when it comes to to ranking
a page. And one thing to consider is you
only want one H1 and then your other
titles throughout the page can be H2 or
H3. And some people worry like how many
times should I repeat the keyword in my
copy or my other heading tags? And I
just say do it naturally. Like if you're
talking about a topic, it's probably
going to weave in naturally when you do
your body text, when you talk about
maybe the problem that your prospects
are facing, maybe when you're sharing
your process later down in the landing
page, when you're talking about how it
works or results you've got for others.
As long as you weave in that keyword
nicely there and don't jam it in too
many times. You can't go too far wrong.
>> Yeah, we just kind of found
opportunities where we'd already said
demand generation and then kind of stuck
course after it, which made more sense.
You know, I probably should have done it
before. makes even more sense in the
context of this page. Certainly doesn't
seem to be any kind of punishment from
Google. And I'm sure if you went through
and read the page,
>> if the average person went through and
read the page, they wouldn't notice that
there's any kind of keyword stuffing,
per se.
>> Yeah, that's the way to do it.
>> Uh so just a few more before and after
examples there. Uh underneath our H1, we
had a I suppose like a little
description. Before that used to just be
we give B2B marketers in small teams the
strategy templates and tools that they
need to drive more revenue for their
business. We then changed that to be our
demand generation training course gives
B2B marketers in small teams blah blah
blah the same spiel. So we just added
demand generation training course in
there. Underneath that we have B2B
marketers love the B2B incubator and all
the reviews and testimonials we get.
Just a simple change, reviews of our
demand genen course from B2B marketers.
And I think that's an H2. And then I
think if you scroll down, you'll see
instead of just FAQs, it'll be FAQs of
our demand genen course. And so we just
try and work it in.
>> Yeah, that's it. Any way you can kind of
fit it in naturally. Like I said, it's
not stuffing in that focus keyword where
it makes sense is is just going to help.
>> Cool. And I don't think we needed to add
a whole lot of length to the page, Sam.
I think it was at least a couple of
thousand words already.
>> I think it was. I think the good thing
was that you already had a which not
everyone not every marketer or founder
is going to have in place, but you had a
a decentsized landing page already that
like you said had 1500, had 2,000 words,
and we did compare. One thing perhaps we
should mention is we did look at the top
two organic pages that were already
ranking for that keyword before we got
their demand genen course, which I think
was Cognism and CXL. And I think they
had 2,000 or so words. We thought to be
safe, let's try and bump that up a bit.
I mean, I always say if I'm trying to
outrank a page and I've looked for my
focus keyword, what is ranking one, two,
and three organic spots. I always use
use a bit of a blow out the water
strategy. So, I think let's be safe.
Let's not only look for gaps in this
page in terms of where we could add
value, whether that's embedding a
YouTube video on the topic, whether
that's adding more hands-on expertise
content like we really know your
problem, we really know your world, we
know the impact it's having. We're going
to share some examples of customer
results, whether that's review videos,
testimonials, quotes. We're going to
share the process. Maybe we're going to
share the team involved. We're going to
drill down into FAQs, like we're going
to answer like all the FAQs you have
around how much does it cost, how long
does it take to implement, why should I
choose you over a competitor, um, and
all that kind of stuff that the the
tough ones that come up on sales calls.
And basically just make this page as
better as as I usually go kind of two to
3x better than I can on the competitors.
So, for example, if it was a comparison
or a product listical page, like the top
10 alternatives that you'll often see in
the SAS world, I'll try and double it or
triple it in terms of value, in terms of
helpfulness, and all that kind of stuff.
Just so then I'm not going to be
worrying one or two months later that
this competitor is going to outrank me
because I've built something that's so
much more helpful, useful, and
informative.
>> There you go. You just got to make sure
it's better, don't you? You've got to
really, really prove to Google that you
deserve that top spot. in terms of
backlinks. So Sam, you told us that
there's internal backlinks and external
backlinks. Uh do you just want to
quickly break down the difference
between the two?
>> Oh yeah. So you've got you've got
something called internal linking which
in short is just a simple way when
you're publishing a new page to your
website. This comes in handy especially
if if the page might not be going on
like a blog or resource section where
it's easily navigable in from your
website menu. But essentially, when
you're publishing a new page, like
George did for demand generation course,
you want to make it super easy for
Google to find and crawl. So look for
any relevant pages that already exist on
your website where you can put a little
link to that new page and vice versa
that you can link from that new page to
other relevant pages. So what's George
got here? He's he already had blog
articles for it looks like how to
measure demand generation, demand
generation KPIs, the ultimate B2B demand
generation guide. So he had a bunch of
articles already on the topic of demand
genen whereby within those articles he
could link one of those keywords and
link to that new page and that in short
basically just helps Google crawl the
page a bit faster and then likewise from
that new page that he created the
landing page for demand genen course
there might have been a couple
opportunities where he could link back
to those useful articles. In short, it
just makes it a bit easier for Google to
crawl the page and also helps the end
prospect that lands on your site. So, if
they want to if they're reading one of
these how-to articles and then they
think, I'm I'm actually ready for a
demand generation course, then they can
click that internal link and that links
to that new landing page. So, it's just
good for user experience and also good
for Google.
>> Does it help with um authority and
relevance at all, Sam? So, if you know,
I've got 15 articles, you know, all
around demand generation and a whole lot
of things that you would want to know if
you were taking a demand genen course
and they're linking back to that course.
Is that a signal to to Google that maybe
I am a bit more of an authority on this
topic at all?
>> We've had clients that I can't tell you
the exact impact, but we have had
clients that have said that just by
doing internal links to to pages from
other relevant articles that are on the
topic or service pages or landing pages,
whatever, it has bumped up those keyword
rankings. So, it does seem to do the
trick. And especially like I say, if you
if you've got a brand new page that
you're publishing that Google's yet to
crawl, you want ultimately to signal to
Google as fast as possible. This is page
is active. So if you can find relevant
articles, service pages, wherever on
your site that you can link to
internally, then it's it's only going to
help the case.
>> And to try and confirm that that context
to Google, um we tried with our anchor
text when we were linking, you know,
between these pages back to our demand
gen course page. Um, I mean most of the
time we just wrote the words demand
genen course. That was our anchor text,
meaning that's what was then linking
back to the course page. We swapped it
up a bit with demand genen training.
>> Join our 12week demand genen course. So
we changed it up a little bit. Is there
a danger of of overdoing it if I just
did it 20 times with demanding courses?
Does that look bad? Yeah, I think you've
done the right thing because we we
normally encourage the same similar for
which we'll talk about in a sec back
links. But yeah, I think with internal
links with backlinks if you can mix up
the wording. So in your case, rather
than just jamming demand generation
course as an internal link on every
single page, sometimes you've done
demand generation training. Sometimes
you join our our 12week demand
generation course. If you can mix it up
a bit, the same for backlinks and make
it a bit more natural, it seems to help.
I think that's a I think that's a good
good idea if you can do that.
>> Okay, awesome. And just for those
listening, look, we just listed it out
in a spreadsheet to keep track of what
we were doing so we knew how many times
we'd linked to it, what anchor text we
used, you know, whether we that link
came at the beginning, middle, or end of
an article. I'm not sure if that
matters, but just at least a bit of a
record for a SAM. Uh because if
something does go wrong, then maybe we
might be able to correlate that with an
action we did at
>> Blame me.
You can look at one of those lines there
and go, I didn't tell you to do that.
All right, cool. So, that was internal
links and then external backlinks. So,
getting other people to link to you. You
had some really great strategies.
>> You've done a you've done a great job
here. I mean, you made a a comprehensive
list, which is probably even more
smarter laid out than I I do. So, just
like on a previous episode where I
talked about when we started breaking
B2B.com 6 months ago and I wanted to get
just like we've done for yourself, I
wanted to get our money keywords around
B2B SEO agency SAS SEO agency ranking as
as quick as humanly possible. So, as
well as doing everything that you've
done for those service pages and landing
pages, we wanted to juice them up,
outrank those big competitors and and
get some keywords so we could start
getting these competitive keywords
ranking as as high as possible as
quickly as possible. So, one of my
favorite strategies to earn really solid
back links and also it's good for repeat
business, building relationships and and
much more is work out, make a list,
Google sheets, Excel sheets, wherever
you want to do it, of who are your
partners, clients, customers, suppliers,
friends, colleagues in industries that
serve a very similar ICP, a similar
ideal client profile to you, but are not
direct competitors. And who can you have
the quickest win to strike up a
conversation with? In my case, and I
think you were the same, like we both
know a guy called Justin Row who runs a
LinkedIn ads agency called Impactable.
And I think he's he's been on your show,
George, and I think vice versa. And the
same for us. So that's like if you've
got someone like that that's going after
the same ICP that you've already got a a
good relationship with, drop them a
message. And then the whole point is you
can create content together. So it might
it could be that it's a very low lowrisk
ask for them. So you might say, "Look,
I'd love to kind of write up an article
for your website." And within that
article, it might be something that's
actually genuinely useful to their
target market, i.e. perhaps George gave
some tips on firing up a demand
generation engine or something like
that. Or maybe he shared his 5Bs
framework or whatever it may be. And
then within that article, you submit
that to this person. So in this case,
Justin, he runs a LinkedIn ads agency.
He'd say, "Happy to collaborate."
Because we've already got that
relationship. So it's probably quite an
easy ask. and then build out an article,
put an put a back link within that
article. So maybe towards the end, you
try and weave in your your link. So in
George's case, it was demand generation
course. So you might just say uh when
you're wrapping up the article, you
might just say, "Oh, by the way, if
you're interested in firing up your own
or if you're interested in checking out
our demand generation course and then
that's a do follow back link to that
landing page." And that is as simple as
that really. I mean that's what we call
quite a lowrisk ask because you've
already got that relationship. If it was
perhaps a prospect that you'd not done
had much communication with or done much
business with, you might do something
like invite them onto your podcast or
you might apply to be on their podcast.
I mean there's good websites called
chartable or listen notes where you can
quite literally go onto a site like
listen notes. You can type in your
industry and it will bring up all the
relevant podcasts. So for example our
our example B2B marketing will see all
those podcasts. If you're in logistics
type that in you'll see the top
logistics show. You can filter it by
podcast. You can filter it by the top
listened like the top 5%, top 2.5%
listened. You can reach out to those
guests or those hosts rather on whatever
platform they hang out on, be it
LinkedIn or elsewhere. And I I've got a
bit of a cheeky way that I do podcast
outreach. So I quite literally find the
host on LinkedIn and I just drop them a
painfully short personalized request
like, "Hey Steve," or "Hey Janice, had
an unusual idea for your podcast. Are
you against a conversation?" And they
they'll accept the connection request
like, "What the hell is this guy on
about? they just put this really weird
message. They'll accept it. I'll send
them a little Loom video with my idea
with some some concepts for their for
their podcast and then that's maybe a
50% acceptance rate. Do a valuable
podcast with them. Once once you've done
the the helpful podcast, you ask most
folks will do an article page for that
podcast kind of summarizing the podcast
with the video with the the audio, the
transcript, and then you just ask for a
backlink to your your target keyword.
There's so many content plays, guest
article plays, podcast plays that you
can do with partners, customers,
clients, friends to earn back links. The
only thing I'd say is try and check that
the website that you're trying to earn a
backlink from has got some domain rating
or domain authority. And you can check
that with a tool like HFS or Semrush and
and HFS has got a free trial that you
can kind of use. So there's that's
probably some of the lowest lowest kind
of friction ways that you can do it that
just take kind of more sweat equity than
cash.
>> And that's exactly what we did. I I
think we took your advice first and went
for that lowhanging fruit. Um the people
uh whose podcast ID had already peered
on and they had a landing page and they
hadn't linked to this. I reached back
out to them and um I think I managed to
get, you know, three or four of those
links in a week or so. So, that was
really, really easy.
>> Nice.
>> I think that got us to the the bottom of
page one or so. And then I think I had a
chat with you on LinkedIn and you had a
bit of a look into it and said, "Look, I
think you probably need to target some
more of the heavy hitters, you know,
websites with higher domain authority."
And that's where you shared your advice
of,
>> you know, reach out to people that, you
know, um factors was one of them. Um
they've got a much stronger website, you
know, big SAS company. um I had a
relationship with them and also tried to
make it as much of a no-brainer as
possible as you like these people are
always looking for content. They want it
written by experts. So I did exactly
what you said to do. I uh wrote a demand
generation guide and through it showed
how you could use factors software to
help you know achieve demand generation
and and do it better. Uh and then I did
the exact same thing with with
impactable with Justin. and I reached
out to Justin, told him that this is
what we would love to do and we'd be
very happy to feature an article of his
on our website and, you know, link back
to him. Um, make it a win-win and did
the same thing except instead of talking
about how you can do demand generation
with factors, talk about how you can do
demand gen with LinkedIn ads. Um, so
just tried to make it as much of a
no-brainer as possible.
>> There's actually even one that I should
mention. there's a really really low
lift way to earn back links that is not
so applicable for brand new startups.
But if your B2B company is somewhat
established, then you can leverage past
press or PR that maybe your exec team
leadership team or CEO or founders or
maybe marketing leadership have been
involved in the past and you'll quite
literally just put in your website URL
on whatever SEO tool you use, HF,
Semrush, whatever. go filter it to the
back links tab and then start going to
old links and you'll realize that in
past articles press whatever they've
probably just done a generic link to
your website and in all these old
articles. So if you can reach out to the
editor or whoever you know that put the
article together and just say look would
you mind taking a sec to just update
this link from a generic link to our
website to this focus page and I'll give
you the copy I'll give you the exact
text I want. Most of those will help as
long as as long as you can contact them
they'll update that. And another cheeky
one is if your someone on your exact
team is active on LinkedIn, you'll
probably notice that in some articles
they've just linked to that person's
LinkedIn and some press PR and serve to
your website. So you can quite literally
go on again an SEO tool HF Semrush go by
search type literally copy and paste
their LinkedIn profile of whoever the
active person from your company is. Copy
and paste their LinkedIn profile URL and
you can see all the back links that have
linked directly to their LinkedIn URL.
And a lot of those article pages won't
have linked to your website. And you
again contact that editor and just say,
"Hey, I thanks very much for linking to
my LinkedIn. This is a cheeky ask, but
could you link to this focus keyword?"
And most of them will cuz they've
already linked to your LinkedIn page. So
it's again another way of leveraging
stuff that's already there in PR and
just earning some nice back links off
the back of it.
>> That's such a great tip. They're really,
really good. uh if I can maybe add just
one thing is when I made these requests
for people to just update their website
quickly, I don't know if you do this Sam
or if you think it makes a difference,
but I tried to make it as easy for them
as possible. So if I was sending them an
email with the changes, I would copy and
paste what was there currently and then
cop like have prepared written for them
what to change it to. So it was just so
easy for them.
>> Exactly. Every like everything if it's
sales or marketing, you want to remove
as much friction as you can. So that
that's a great idea. or even offer them
an incentive. You probably don't need
to. If you're asking a mate or a friend,
but if it's someone that's coming in
cold, you might want to give them a bit
of a sweetener, whether that's inviting
them to your podcast or creating some
content for them or something like that,
so they've got a bit of a sweetie for
giving you that link. Before we go into
the results from this Sam, like the
actual pipeline, um, something that
sprung to mind for me and actually what
I was kind of thinking of as I was going
through this process is the benefit of
having a media arm to your business
because it makes these asks so much
easier cuz all of a sudden you have
something to give to that person.
>> So true. So true. I think you and I
almost I certainly do almost take it for
granted because I've been running the
Breaking B2B podcast for like four
years. I always take it for granted that
I've got this show so I can just
leverage it when I'm doing outreach or
messaging folks and I just say, "Yeah,
we'll bring you on the show." Or, "Yeah,
I've got this episode that you can check
out." Or, "Yeah, I talked about that
recently." But it's having a media arm.
I guess I I think of it as a just having
a podcast, but at the same time, it's
it's so right. Like, if you've got piece
of media, doesn't have to be a podcast.
It could be a webinar. It could be a
different asset. If you've got that way
of communicating both to your ideal
clients through the channels that they
consume, whether that's YouTube,
podcast, email list, whatever, but also
a way of inviting
kind of thought leaders, prospects,
target accounts, whatever. And then
another way of using it within your
outreach, it's it just makes these kind
of asks when you do need to do stuff
that's building your brand, building
your SEO, building your demand gen and
and all that kind of stuff just makes it
so much lower lift for yourself and for
those target prospects. And yeah, having
a podcast is is time consuming, but at
the end of the day, there's so many
rewards off the back of it if you're
willing to put in the time to to set it
up and and keep it going, as well as the
learnings off the back of it. I think
you made an excellent point. You know,
we think about it as a media arm. To
those listening, that might sound really
intimidating because that sounds like a
really big thing, but I think what we're
really getting at is as long as you're
not just putting out product focused
content and you have something that's
helpful. You said it could be a webinar.
A lot of people are probably doing
webinars. Maybe they're mostly product
focused. Can you start to integrate some
kind of helpful content into it? And now
all of a sudden, you have something to
give people. So when you go and make a
request, you have something to offer
back.
>> Yeah, it's really really useful. I mean,
I'm I'm saying this because just like
you, George, I'm a founder, so I I do a
lot of marketing, but I do a lot of
selling as well. If you've got useful
content on specific topics that are
relevant to what you're selling really
helps in the sales process. It's like
the amount of times where I don't know,
we've sent out a pitch, like we've had
someone come inbound, we sent out a
pitch, then a couple days later after
sending their their plan of action, I'll
just say, "Oh, you might like this
podcast episode that quite literally
drills down into the exact strategies
we're going to be using for your
process." And I'll send that like a day
or two before we have our cool to go
through pricing and strategy. And like
people have literally said the reason
they've chosen to work with Breaking B2B
is because I've shared the process in
podcast, videos, and examples. And so
they knew exactly what we're going to be
doing. So if you've got that stuff that
you can create, not only is it good for
folks to find you or build trust in you
or to leverage to build demand, really
good as sales enablement and actually to
close deals.
>> And another great case for why sales and
marketing need to be more aligned. I
mean, imagine if your sales team
listeners, you know, were able to as
quickly as Sam could like think of this
relevant marketing material that you had
created that answers all these questions
and objections before they next speak to
that prospect. You know, people love to
learn in their own time. They want to do
their evaluation in their own time. And
so this kind of stuff that they consume
without you there is incredibly helpful.
Okay. Uh let's go into results. So Sam,
unbelievable. It's been what what did I
say? 67 days or something. We haven't
been on page one for very long. We
actually got eight deals coming from it
from what was it 120 sessions on the
website or so. One of them already
closed once.
>> Very good.
>> I mean, that's
>> way better than I expected.
>> Way better than I expected.
>> We said, I think maybe after our
conversation in recording the first
episode, we said, "Let's uh let's hope
this works out nicely." And it
absolutely has. I mean, I've been I've
been blown away. I really saw the
difference, Sam, from when we made it to
the top three positions and then even
more so again once we hit that hit that
first one. Um, which I thought was quite
interesting. Maybe because um and I
think I have the screenshot here for
this particular search. It shows like
the first result which is us and then it
has like these snippets of all these
courses underneath. So to scroll down to
the second result, you've got to go
pretty far.
>> That's true. Yeah. You've got the people
the people also asked section underneath
and you've got a bit of a course section
which I'm guessing only shows because
it's a coursebased keyword. So, like you
say, it takes up if you're not in your
keyword, if you if you're not position
one, there's a lot of real estate you've
then got to go past scroll past to get
to organic, too. Plus, if some folks are
doing ads, which they probably are
sometimes that keywords, then you've got
to scroll past the ads to organic. But
yeah, in your case, if you're on the
YouTube video, you'll be able to see
that George is taking up a nice bit of
real estate because of that. So, Zam, if
our competitors do listen to this
episode and they basically seen what we
had to do um to rank number one to
defend this position, is it just doing
more of the same? More back links, you
know, doing all all of that same stuff,
but just more of it?
>> Yeah, I mean, we we probably want to
keep it up, I think, just because you've
only had you haven't had the organic one
number one spot for long, realistically,
and you've already got eight
opportunities off the back of it and one
closed deal. So, I'd say it probably
just makes sense for you to just keep
keep chipping away at it. And what I
mean by that is, i.e., if you're doing
more podcast appearances, which you will
be as and when those folks publish those
article pages on the topic, just ask
them to to link to that one again to
that focus page and every now and then
doing a an article submission for for
relevant websites that have got a bit of
authority. And and probably just adding
to this page every now and then with
what you think is useful. So, every now
and then you might get a new question or
FAQ that we can add to the FAQ carousel
section at the bottom of the page that
you might get on a sales call or
prospecting call. Or you might get a new
objection on one of your trainings that
you can leverage in there. Or you might
update the video that presents the
course. Or you might even do a process
video perhaps in a few months time that
you can weave in halfway down the page.
So just coming up with ideas that are
relevant that are actually from those
prospects that you're speaking to that
they're going to find useful and just
chipping away at it just so that page it
does a few things really. It gives folks
more useful content when they land on
the page. And secondly, it kind of
signals to Google that it's not a
redundant page and it's getting fresh
content added to it every now and then.
>> So it's not a one and done. That's not
what I wanted to hear, but that is the
reality of almost everything in life,
isn't it? You've already you've already
got the fruits of your labor, George,
within a few days. So, you can't mean
that much.
>> You're right. I can't complain at all.
I'm I'm absolutely stoked with the
outcome. Uh and look, I knew you were
good and you gave me a terrific process
to follow. It was really really
actionable and it's just amazing that it
it happened at this point in time. So,
Sam, thank you so much again and uh
thank you for your time. We appreciate
it.
>> Thank you, sir. Enjoy the leads.
[Laughter]
And there you have it. There's the full
step by step so you can start outranking
your competitors and start driving
organic pipeline and revenue with SEO.
But as you may have seen, there's quite
a lot involved in the strategy. So
perhaps you lack the resources, knowhow,
or expertise in house and maybe want a
team to manage the full process and
start driving results for you. If that
is the case, why not grab a call with me
over at breakingb2.com
or hit a link in the description below.
Or if you're not ready, but want to grab
my 90 days to revenue B2B SEO playbook,
head over to breakingb2b.com and hit the
newsletter tab to unlock it instantly.
Or check out the breaking B2B podcast
where we're sharing actionable SEO tips,
strategies, and case studies, and
interviews with SAS marketing leaders
each and every week. Thanks for
watching, and I shall catch you on the
next one. Cheers.